By Dani 
In een projectteam zijn verschillende personen betrokken. 
Zij vervullen ieder een eigen taak. Beschrijf de werkzaamheden van de onderstaande mensen, er kunnen dubbelingen in zitten. 

a. projectleider: Een projectleider in de ICT is verantwoordelijk voor de projectorganisatie en het realiseren van een project opdracht. 
Dit houdt in het probleem verkennen, afbakenen en definiëren om zodoende het project in goede banen te leiden. Ook stel je de samenhang vast met andere (deel)projecten. (7 vacatures)

b. projectmanager: Als project manager heeft u de leiding over meerdere medewerkers of stuurt u diverse projecten of afdelingen aan. Afhankelijk van de complexiteit van de organisatie en de voorliggende problematiek wordt er gezocht naar iemand die mensenkennis combineert met inzicht in de werkprocessen (29 vacatures)
c. software analyst: Responsible for planning, designing and implementing information systems. Performs encoding, testing, debugging and installation activities as necessary. Works with organizational end users to clarify current operating procedures and communicate program objectives. Relies on established guidelines and instructions to perform daily job functions. Works under immediate supervision and usually reports to a project leader or manager. (3 vacatures)
d. Software ontwerper: Creates and designs new software by analyzing, testing, assessing and implementing programming applications. Supports and installs applications and operating system. Assists in the testing process by conducting reviews and analyses, witnessing tests and participating in software certification. Relies on established guidelines and instructions to perform daily job functions. Works under immediate supervision (29 vacatures)
e. IT architect: Designs, develops and implements information systems and operations systems in support of network, communications and core business functions. Evaluates end user needs, client goals, budgets and existing applications to define system requirements and technical standards. May be responsible for drafting user guides and beta testing pre-release systems. Relies on extensive knowledge and professional discretion to achieve goals. Usually reports to a department head or senior management. Manages others. Significant ingenuity and flexibility is expected. (23 vacatures)
f. software ontwikkelaar: Designs and develops new software and revises old software. Determines product requirements and develops high-level architectural specifications with a focus on feasibility, functionality and ease of integration with existing systems. Relies on extensive knowledge and professional discretion to achieve goals. Usually reports to a department head. May lead a team of developers. Usually reports to a department head or senior management. (29 vacatures)
g. programmeur: Analyzes, designs, develops and tests various programming systems, including encoding, testing, debugging and documenting programs. Relies on established guidelines and instructions to perform daily job functions. Works under immediate supervision. 
h. tester: Meestal doet de programmeur dat er is geen specifiee tester job description (8 vacatures)

i. functioneel beheerder: Creates, manages and executes project plans to support the ongoing needs of the IT department. Coordinates resources, establishes deadlines and assigns responsibilities. Tracks the progress of projects and compiles status reports for senior management. Builds working relationships with team members, vendors and other departments involved in the projects. Relies on limited knowledge and professional discretion to achieve goals. Usually reports to a department head. Significant ingenuity and flexibility is expected. (o op functioneel beheerder, 19 op beheerder)
j. technisch beheerder: Manages the IT department. Develops and executes plans that support the organization’s IT needs. Ensures proper functioning of the information processing system and oversees necessary upgrades. Aligns hardware, software and associated peripherals with organizational needs. Relies on extensive knowledge and professional discretion to achieve goals. Usually reports to senior management. Manages others. Significant ingenuity and flexibility is expected. Usually reports to top management. Requires a bachelor’s degree and at least 5 years of relevant experience (13 vacatures)
k. applicatie beheerder: Builds applications to meet business requirements and oversees a team of analysts or developers. Assesses existing applications and keeps abreast of industry standards and best practices. Determines technical changes, schedules projects and oversees timelines. Implements and monitors quality standards. Relies on extensive knowledge and professional discretion to plan and achieve goals. Manages others. Significant ingenuity and flexibility is expected. Usually reports to a department head. Requires a bachelor’s degree in a related area and at least 7 years of application development experience (0 vacatures)
l. DBA-er: Provides technical support for the development, implementation and maintenance of an internal database. Maintains policies and procedures for ensuring database’s security and integrity. Implements data models, database designs, data access and table maintenance codes. Resolves database performance and capacity issues, and replication and other distributed data issues. Relies on knowledge and professional discretion to plan and achieve goals. Works under general supervision and usually reports to a supervisor, though some ingenuity and flexibility is required. May require a bachelor’s degree in a related area and 2–4 years of relevant experience. (5 vacatures0
m. Vet zinloze afvinkopdracht

Zoek uit met een vacaturesite naar welke rollen vraag is.
Project manager wordt het meest gevraagd/
